[MUSIC]
>> Lukas: This is one of my most favorite
framework features in Angular 2 and
that is component composition and
how components fit together.
So we'll talk about
Component System Architecture briefly,
what this is,
what that means for Angular2.
We'll talk about a clear contract between
our components using input and output.
We'll talk about input and
output and then we will
then get into Smart Components and
Dumb Components, and then
briefly talk about View Encapsulation,
which is pretty interesting.
But first, an Angular History lesson.
So I briefly eluded it yesterday but
this time, I'm gonna do it with graphics.
And then, if you stick around for
tomorrow,
I actually have an extension of this.
But the first time, I believe,
that most people ever did Angular 1, it
was kind of a Hello World, really simple.
For me it was kind of a put this thing
on the controller and then bind to it.
In the template and then I took at a step
further and edit it to an input field and
when I type in the input field,
it would automatically update in
the dom and my mind was blown.
I was sold, like I'm all in.
So, the first Hello World very tiny app,
you had a tiny view and a tiny controller.
Oftentimes, initially In the same page.
So a lot of times you would just put your
controller in line with your HTML and
eventually they said, well,
we're gonna stop doing that.
Then you started to actually
try to build something,
a little bit more ambitious,
started trying to add in features.
And so, in my case, it was a lot of times
a controller with a large amount of logic
that I'm importing the HTTP module and
or service, rather.
And doing all this service side stuff and
this thing just got bigger, and
bigger, and bigger.
And then, before it's too late
you're kinda forced to sit down and
just get realistic, of like,
this thing is not working.
And so,
within kinda the first year of Angular,
the different teams the project set
was on is that we ran into this very,
very quickly, is that our controllers are
too big, our templates are too big, and
one particular project and this was
before kind of UI router stabilized.
We were having to kind of roll our own
mechanism to only redrop parts of the
page, because if something would change.
And there was a mutation,
we were saying well great.
Now we gotta redraw like everything and
we don't wanna do that.
And so we were kind of had a shell
component that it would
say hey what has changed.
And then it would go and
redraw portions of the page.
And so we kind of had to do these
home brewed things because we had
a single kind of page in here with
large controller, large view.
Now, in angular one there's two
solid approaches to this problem.
The first one is named route and
breaking everything into
tiny pieces that is essentially,
your application is now a state machine.
This works very well, so you might
say hey, that side bar is one thing.
This is a state.
Lets say that this top thing here and
our footer.
But you still had this
template controller pair,
we were just braking down into
smaller more specific things.
Another really good approach is
by using directives so again what
we're doing is we're taking where we had
a large controller and a large template.
And still keeping that combination,
just making it much smaller, and
breaking them into directives.
So this is how I do all of
my Angular One projects now.
If you go to Angular Class, get up, repo,
they have a great web pack ES6 starter
that I believe Scott did like 99% of that.
And that's all component based.
And so, now you're using ES6 to
basically create directives,
everything goes into there.
But the idea here,
is to take large controllers,
large templates, and
start to break them into smaller pieces.
That you can manage.
When you start working on a large team for
a large PC manufacturer, for instance, and
you're on the same project, it's really
nice to be able to divide you application
up into pieces so
that everyone can work on something
without causing any intra office drama.
That's right, I'm looking at you.
He's like what, what, what, what?
>> Speaker 2: You're right.
>> Lukas: Yeah, that's happening
right now.
>> [LAUGH]
>> Speaker 2: I'm not sure.
I schedule the meetings, and
he does the shell scripts.
>> [LAUGH]
>> Lukas: So I guess,
he's doing shell scripts now,
so, you're welcome.
>> [NOISE]
>> Speaker 2: Just if he'll take it.
>> Lukas: He'll take it.
So with angular two this template
controller pair still exists.
It's now by default,
it's baked into the frame work.
But now instead of a directive,
we are using that semantic.
It's evolved a little bit and
it's a component.
So now, hopefully we're starting
to see this pattern emerge.
So, this is really
Component System Architecture.
It's that you start to look at your page,
and you say, how do I break this down into
tiny logical fine grain
single purpose components.
And so for me, a kind of a good
way that I approach this is
any time somebody give me for
instance a visual composition of this is
what we want this application to look at.
I tend to say if I have a pencil and
I draw things around.
If I draw boxes around things,
that generally is a good candidate for
a component.
So for instance,
>> Lukas: If we go here and
somebody showed me a picture of this,
I would look at this and
off the top of my head I'd say okay,
well, we have maybe this header
that could possibly be a component.
We have this list of items, so
that could be one component.
But we could take it a step further and
now we could actually have
an item in there, cuz I would hate
to repeat that over and over.
And then we have this thing
here which is an item detail so
that would be like
an items detail component.
And so you just start to draw
boxes on top of the layout and
you're like,
ok this logically makes sense.
And generally I find that for
the most part the kind of component
system architecture kind of, itself.
Like, just logically like this is how
this thing should be put together.
Fortunately, Angular makes
this really easy to do and,
and it's really, you know,
almost by necessity to start to
think of things in this kind of way.
With that said, for instance,
I've seen individuals who are in
an object orienting programming language.
And they're doing it in the worst
possible way by actually writing a lot of
procedural code within an object.
So like you may have a construction.
You have like 42 lines of procedural code.
It's like okay, so we're doing,
we have an object but
we're not adhering to the spirit
of what's trying to happen here.
Because now we've got these
procedural things that are happening,
we're missing these concerns, etcetera.
So even though Angular encourages
you by providing these mechanisms,
you can still technically
create a very large component
with a very large template,
and that would be suboptimal.
So you have to really embrace this idea
that things need to be very specific,
fine grain.
So, this is kind of clean code,
you know, again Robert C Martin,
keep everything small, fine grained, and
specific to what it does.
>> Lukas: So,
we've been talking about templates and
components, and by now,
we are, I think we're, I think we're
very familiar with this graphic.
>> Lukas: But what I wanna focus on here,
that really enables this
is the custom data binding.
And so we've seen from a component
to a template, how to do that?
But now when you can start to use
these same mechanisms to bind to other
components, and
create custom events that you can bind to,
custom properties that you
can send to this component.
This becomes very powerful.
And so really,
the crux of component system architecture
comes down to understanding how to
create custom events and bind to them.
And custom properties that
you can then send into your
child component via the template.